Chapter 1: ﻿Pilot
“Please do not hang up the phone. This is an important call regarding you business-,” I hung up that phone faster than a Latina woman finds a seat in a busy subway, because there is no reason for an automated agent to be calling into a busy restaurant with an “important” phone call. More importantly, anything that is important, would not have to state that it was important, and definitely not beg to stay on the line. Anyone who has worked a day in customer service near a phone knows the tone of a scam call. I, however, seldom enjoy them. In my previous jobs in retail stores, that would not be as busy as a restaurant, I would try and make conversation with them. If the call can make it to a few minutes, I would dump them with false family history, and “I love you, please marry me.” I cannot do that now not just because they are all automated voice recordings, but also because I have two groups of four waiting for a table.
It seems like in New York, all locals stores are owned or managed by an immigrant to some degree. Either that or I just naturally always end up being drawn to one that is. For the restaurant I have started working at, it is a Chinese woman in her early 40s. Her name is Faye. She is thin as leaf, and loud as a truck. I would assume her philosophy on clothes is that they are an extension of one’s skin, because the times I have seen her, her pants have been as tight as her skin. Yet, she does not look bad overall, she just looks tense as she walks over to me and asks me to let the phone go to voicemail whenever it is busy, and take care of the floor, especially if my coworker was not present in the front. Dine-in first. That is a cardinal code for food service workers. So is a ding. You hear a bell ding from the kitchen, you run after it as soon as possible, so the food is served hot, especially if it is a thing like pho, which is our thing.
*kitchen dings*
Simply put as a job, serving is quite simple. You ask people what they want and you give them that, and then a bill. The devil is in the details, and the hidden ques. I am about to take these two full bowls of pho into a table of 4 people, that the kitchen just dinged for. Pretty simple. I went over earlier to table to clear out the plates for the incoming entrees, but they insisted on holding onto the little appetizer plates. So as I stand here, wrists mildly shaking while holding two bowls teeming with boiling broth and meat, and looking at them and say, “Two classic beefs,” no one moves. Like a third grader left stunned after mistakenly opening an SAT questionnaire, they freeze when I repeat back what they had just asked from me verbatim. This happens often, sometimes even to me when I go out, and honestly it is fine as long as you act fast and nicely. They did. One of them pretends to move the plate, and make way for the food. Then, I run back to bring another pair of bowls there. They were a nice group of two couples in their late 20s. That age group of mostly is always nice. 20 year-olds to zillenials: they smile back, are polite, and tip well regardless as long as you don’t slap them after putting down the meal. It is the age groups older than the millennials that occasionally treat you as if asked for their daughter’s hand in marriage while being broke and unemployed and ugly.
By the time I get back from the table, I had to check out table 14, and then promptly bust it down to get one of the waiting parties seated. I will be never nicer to a customer than when I say, “This is everything,” and showing them the screen on the POS. It is all routine and rehearsed: they put the card down; it goes through; you subtly mention that the next thing that shows up is the tip; they sign it off; say your thank you’s, and leave. The most that will happen is that they either won’t tip, or the card won’t go through, or they’ll want the bill or the food to-go. I ask the table if they want anything to go. They say yes. I say what. They look at me blankly in the eye and say everything. Time and place. You see one person running around serving, bussing, and packing takeout, and your response is… “everything.” I smile back, and quickly get all half-eaten portions of their food packed up, and say thank you. The people waiting by the door, call for me to inquire about their wait time, to which I say whenever the table I just checked out left, which I suspect to be soon. She grins and opens her mouth to ask me a question to which I already have a bad feeling, she says, “I think we might have one more person. Is that okay?” Rarely is that okay. I had the houseful, and a table is for four. “I could try to fit in an extra chair, but there is not enough space there for another chair” I say, which was the best I could do. She says it is fine, and they’ll squish three men into the booth.
By the time I return, there’s two more tables that need me for something, I had forgotten that another table had asked me for a check before I put one down on table 14, some girl wanted more lime (which I had to go down to the fridge for), an elder man wanted to know the kind of mushroom used for the base of the vegetarian broth. Faye was helping me, as much as she could. I just then remember that I had been holding my piss for so long, that I had forgotten, and no longer felt the urge to piss. It will perhaps come back to me in the form of kidney damage in 20 years, but right now I cleared out the plates, and took it to the back to dump out the leftovers. Sometimes these activities feel so repetitive, I feel like I am having deja-vu. Was I not just doing this for this very table? I never have the time to think about the answer, however. I just run. The only thing I love about being very busy is that I have the upper hand in customer interactions. I do not have to blurt out a multiple-choice dialogue in hopes to upsell them. They either get it or get something else or leave.
By the time the table left, and I sat down the four-turned-five group, I was at least two tables behind on running food, and five delivery drivers constantly saying, “Not ready?” What do you think Mamaduke? Is it ready? The queuing of the UberEats-Grubhub-HungryPanda drivers are unavoidable. They are always loudly on the phone with someone. So, they’re last in the priority list. Dine-in first.
As I go to run the food, Sufjan comes up. He is the other server: a Moroccan who was was downstairs breaking his fast for Ramadan. A New York City kitchen will always be more diverse than a college pamphlet. Yesterday, he broke his fast by 7, had a meal by 7:30, vaped up to the high clouds by 8, and by 9, he had gone to the bathroom and done a line. I encourage him to do everything but drugs, but I’ve not known him long enough for him to let my words in his ears about such thing. Do not let that defer you from the fact that he is a sweet, compassionate man. “Habibi, don’t worry. We got this, I’m here,” he said as he lightly hugged me on his way up the stairs. And we had got this. I started packing the order and he went over in the front to buss down a table. Faye, who has the ability to always catch me at the wrong moment, says, “Soul, can you please listen to me. Dine-in first.” She seemed annoyed, but at this point, the kitchen was behind us, they were overwhelmed too, and there was nothing we could have done. I stay invested in packing and withhold a response, and am thrown a, “We are going to have a talk later.”
Faye’s “friend” conveniently shows up at the restaurant. He comes over every now and then, and helps her whenever someone calls in sick, especially with washing the dishes. However, as per what Sufjan told me yesterday, they used to be together, and he dumped her because she cheated on him with Sufjan. Sufjan’s stands his own ground of innocence claiming he knew nothing about her relationship, and that she was the one initiated it. The latter I fully believe, because there is no way he had the balls to hit on his boss twice his age. I could say his religion forbids him, but he does coke.
I had introduced myself to her friend before, and him to me, but I am as good with names as I am with figure skating. The closest I can do is rollerblades. He says that he is just here to say hi, and wanted to talk to Sufjan for something. I lap the floor a few times, catering to a few needs, and when I catch wind of Sufjan, I tell him that the friend wanted to say hi to him. He waves at him, goes to him standing by the door, and asks him to meet him later when it is not busy. The friend agrees to it and leaves.
The two of us are looping the floor, constantly, because it is always when it is busy that the some woman on table 20 wants to know if our lemongrass chicken has any lemongrass chicken in it, and if they could do it without the lemongrass. It can be thrilling if you have the mind for it, but restaurants, otherwise, can be a headache. The people who work here because they have to. Perhaps if it a high-end restaurant then the chef will have come from some school, and waiters will have climbed their way through lower-ranking restaurants to be there. But here, the kitchen is there because they had kids to raise and send money to back in Mexico, and Sufjan and I had to earn a living. An absolute sidenote is that Sufjan was a divorced, father, who was absent from his one-year old son because the mother didn’t want him there, and he was only in his mid 20s, a few years older than me. The only person who dreamed of being here is Faye, whose restaurant it is.
After a while, a man in a uniform walked in, saying he was from the Department of Health. There’s perhaps only two things modern restaurant owners fear, bad reviews, and the Health Department. A “B” in New York, especially in the Upper East Side was a “Thank you, and goodbye” sign. So, Faye suddenly became even more tense, which I did not think was possible. She almost struggled to react to things, and answer to the person, as he walked through and into kitchen and the basement. That stopped nothing, the people still had queries about how much salt there was in the broth. So Sufjan and I went on to cover the floor, when the friend came back again and Sufjan went to talk to him outside. I know I am not supposed to have prejudices while serving customers, but I love tables of elderly. Like I said, some boomers can be rough, but most old people are super amicable if you are even slightly cheerful. They will also laugh at anything. Everything is funny to them, and they eat slow so you have more time to care for others too. I also love queer customers. I try to signal with a feminine gesture that I am one amongst them, and even if not, they are always nice, and tip well. You do not even have to bother cracking jokes to them. They know you’re doing it for a job. But still, I try to talk to them when I can. So imagine my surprise that a table of an elderly gay couple walked in, and I sat them down. “We live upstairs,” one of them said, to which I said, “Wow, neighbours.” They laughed hysterically, as if I had not just said the most rudimentary thing when someone says they live close by. As I was walking away from them, Sufjan came back and walked by me swiftly. I went about my job until he proceeded to walk back outside, with two small meat-cutting knives in his hands. I was too late in my reaction, and he left by the time I tried to follow him. The next thing I know is I saw the friend run across the store, followed by Sufjan who ran up until the door with a knife held in his fist up closely to himself, and walked in. Only after he walked in, I realized he was bleeding. “Are you okay? Oh my god?” I exclaim. “That motherfucker, he punched me. And I came back and chased him with a knife,” he said.
By the time I formed a reaction, the Health Department personnel was on his way out. Faye was nowhere to be found. I asked Sufjan if I could tape him up or anything, he said he was fine, and went to the bathroom. Before he did so, I asked if I should call the cops, it was then when I realized I did not have my phone with me. My phone is my actual child. It has a name. It also has all my pictures from back home up until here, none of which is backed up. I overworked some penny-paying job back home, and summed up the money to buy it, and my parents added a bit as a gift. I am attached to that phone as if it were an organ. It is unfortunately also always dying, as is the case now, so losing it right now would be horrible. I checked around, and at that point I was sure I left it by the register. And then it struck me, some man had shrugged in asking for some free food, and I said not right now, maybe come back later, while I was running the table alone. It is probably dead by now so I cannot track it down. I am too tired, and bombarded with too many emotions to even have a breakdown, so I just stand still. I am an atheist, but if God were real, now would be real good time for Them to prove it. Come down, brother. Sprinkle a miracle. As I think of God, I hear Sufjan yell from the bathroom, “And he did this on Ramadan.” Religion is complicated to say the least.
Faye slowly walked up a while after the Health Department personnel left, and then almost on the verge of tears said, “He gave us a B.” I went in closer to hug her. For everything she is, she cares only about one thing: the restaurant. As I was starting to get worried, she whispers, “We will probably go to court over this.” Sufjan stepped out taped up, and we somehow got through the night.
By the time we closed, I was basically dragging my body across the place. Faye went to her apartment across the street, and brought back her dog, a pug. I hated pugs, for the way they are bred solely to serve our standard of cuteness while being unable to function as a being— but I digress. I am too tired to blurt all of this out into words. She reaches into her pocket and bring out three joints. “You’re getting a hang of it pretty quick,” Sufjan says. I had not noticed, and not ever cared before but today was 4/20. I walked into the kitchen and asked if any of them would want anything to smoke, and they agreed to rather just be done faster, and get home quickly as they had an early shift tomorrow. So, the three of us cheered our joints. I was surrounded by this weird sense of belonging. Perhaps nothing will be the same tomorrow. Faye might find out about Sufjan chasing her ex down the block with a knife, the B might really affect this place, I might not even to get home without my phone, who knows. I feel like the joint was just a pause in the chapter for the next things to unfold, but right now I understand what makes restaurants houses. Sufjan pauses to look at the dog, and gazes back at Faye.
“Do they actually eat dogs in China?” he says letting out a laugh that is just him uttering the words “he he he” through his tongue.
On an impulse, I pat his shoulders and say, “You cannot say that!” Faye laughs it off, perhaps she is already high.
“Okay, if you were stuck in an island with him with nothing else what would you do with him?” he rephrases.
“I would eat this motherfucker.” she says without hesitation. I pray these people never make a tweet in their lives. But back to this being a house, a community. These overworked employees find refuge in the most fundamental thing they can provide to the people: food. We have all flees some horror in some far away land, and hope to make the best of our circumstances for ourselves, and the people we have left behind. We are not bound by passion, but necessity. Every other joy we find is a lucky stone we kick around along our climb. We are here because we need the money, and we are willing to suffer through things because we need the money, and have shitty life circumstances. It is a sad, sad thing that we are at the end of the day being exploited for our work, and all we have is this bubble we create around our work, and the people with whom we live in it.

Chapter 2: Eclipse
Hello this is chapter 2 lol
