Chapter 1: ﻿Pilot

“Please do not hang up the phone. This is an important call regarding you business-,” I hang up that phone faster than a Latina woman finds a seat in a busy subway, because there is no reason for an automated agent to be calling into a busy restaurant with an “important” phone call. More importantly, anything that is important would not have to state that it was important because it would be apparent that it was important, and definitely it would not have beg to stay on the line. Anyone who has worked a day in customer service near a phone knows the tone of a scam call. I, however, enjoy them… sometimes. In my previous jobs as a cashier in a retail stores, it wouldn’t be as busy so I would try and make conversations with them. If the call can made it up to a few minutes, I would pump them with false family history, and an “I love you, please marry me.” I cannot do that now not just because they are all automated voice recordings, but also because I have two groups of four waiting for a table. 

It seems like in New York, all locals stores are owned or managed by an immigrant to some degree. Either that or I just naturally always end up being drawn to a one that is. For the restaurant I have started working at, it is a Chinese woman in her early 40s. Her name is Faye. She is thin as a leaf, and loud as a truck. I would assume her philosophy on clothes is that they are an extension of one’s skin, because every time I see her, her pants have been as tight as her skin. Yet, she does not look bad overall, she just looks tense as she walks over to me and asks me to let the phone go to voicemail whenever it is busy, and take care of the floor, especially if my coworker was not present in the front. *Dine-in first.* That is a cardinal code for food service. So is a *ding*. You hear a bell ding from the kitchen, you run after it as soon as possible, so the food is served hot, especially if it is a thing like pho, which is our thing. 

*kitchen dings* I walk towards the bell ding. 

Simply put as a job, serving is quite simple. You ask people what they want and you give them that. You also are pressured into getting them to buy as many things as possible in the name of upselling. I feel somewhat guilty doing that so I kind of don’t, but that is about it. The devil is in the details, and the hidden ques. It is in the fact that you have to stand there and smile through your teeth to say, ”No, I’m sorry we cannot stir fry the noodles in your pho or we cannot make you a whole another broth without garlic or onion or sugar or msg because it is premade.”  Anyway, I am about to take these two full bowls of pho into a table of 4 people, that the kitchen just dinged for. Pretty simple. When I went over earlier to the table to clear out the plates for the incoming entrees, they insisted on holding onto the little appetizer plates. So as I stand here wrists mildly shaking with two bowls teeming with boiling broth and meat, I look at them and say, “Two classic beefs.” No one moves. Like a third grader left stunned after mistakenly opening an SAT questionnaire, they freeze when I repeat back what they had just asked from me verbatim. This happens often, sometimes even to me when I go out, and honestly it is fine as long as you act fast and nicely, which they start doing. One of them pretends to move the plate and make way for the food. Then, I run back to bring the other pair of bowls. They were a nice group of two couples in their late 20s. That age group is mostly always nice. 20 year-olds to zillenials: they smile back, are polite, and tip well regardless as long as you don’t spit into their food after putting it down. It is the boomers that occasionally treat you as if you asked for their daughter’s hand in marriage while being a 30-year-old unemployed man surviving on a gofundme you created by claiming to have some brain tumor after being kicked out from your living room sublet situation because you made the entire apartment reek of b.o. and were months behind on rent. Actually, my roommate did that. Ex-roommate. I used to stalk his facebook page, but I haven’t seen anything from him after the tumor post. Probably got logged out, and scamming people with some other account.  

Also, if you have 10 tables, you have to mentally queue ten things in a priority order which is constantly cycling. By the time I get back from putting the four pho down, I had to check out table 9, and then promptly bust it down to get one of the waiting parties seated. I will never be nicer to a customer than when I say, “This is everything,” and showing them the overcharged bill on the POS. As someone who works here, I would never eat here. Why is an egg roll $12? But I digress because it helps my tip. Everything is all routine and rehearsed when checking them out: they put the card down; it goes through; you ask them if everything was okay; you subtly mention that the next thing that shows up is the tip; probably crack a joke or make a two dialogue of conversation; they sign it off; say your thank you’s, and leave. The most that will happen is that they either won’t tip, or the card won’t go through, or they’ll want the bill or the food to-go. I asked this table if they want anything to go, and they say yes. So I ask them what they would like to go. With a blank stare and a toyota car smile, they say *everything*. Time and place, people. You see one person running, serving, bussing, and packing takeout, and your response is… “everything.” I toyota smile back, and ask for a moment while taking their food away to be packed. Ideally, I would now place them at no. 10 in my to-do list, but I need that table asap so I box them up quickly. 

The people waiting by the door, call for me to inquire about their wait time, to which I say whenever as the table I just checked out is about to leave. She grins and opens her mouth to ask me a question to which I already have a bad feeling, she says, “I think we might have one more person. Is that okay?” Rarely is that okay. Three to four, fine. Five to six, sure. Seven to eight, fine. Because most tables either fit two or four people. But four to five? That is a crime. I can’t just just add a chair and hope for enough space. So I candidly explain this to them, and surprisingly they were willing to squeeze in. The food may not fit but who cares, be my guest, literally. She also asked a dumb question, she said, “What would the wait time be if we had a reservation.” 

“Do you *have* a reservation?”

“No. But if we did, how much would the wait time be?”

I don’t know, girl. If I had a finger up my ass, how many times would I come? Like this is not your playground of imaginations or hypotheticals, so I just walked away.

By the time I return, there’s two more tables that need me for something, I had forgotten that another table had asked me for a check before I put one down on table 9, some girl wanted more lime (which I had to go down to the fridge for), an elder man wanted to know the kind of mushroom and if it was wood mushrooms. Faye was helping me, as much as she could spare to help between her cigarettes and drinks. She is a raging alcoholic. My first day here, I told her that, she went, “I drink this everyday and still show up to work. That’s not what alcoholic look like.” That *is* what alcoholism looks like. I just then remember that I have been holding my piss for so long, that I forgot about it and no longer felt the urge to piss. This will perhaps come back to me in the form of kidney damage in 20 years, but right now I cleared out the plates, and took it to the back to dump out the leftovers. Sometimes these activities feel so repetitive, I feel like I am having deja-vu. Was I not just doing this for this very table? Did I not just dump out their food? I never have the time to think about the answer, however. I just run. The only thing I love about being very busy is that I have the upper hand in customer interactions. I do not have to blurt out a multiple-choice dialogue in hopes to upsell them. They either get it or someone will. 

By the time the table left, and I sat down the four-turned-five group, I was at least two tables behind on running food, and five delivery drivers constantly saying, “Not ready?” What do you think Mamaduke? Is it ready? The queuing of the UberEats-Grubhub-HungryPanda drivers are unavoidable. They are always loudly on the phone with someone, and if you ask them anything they just shove their phones into your face without saying a word. So, they’re last in the priority list. Dine-in first. So, for a moment, turned to the table of four-turned-five and greeted them because two of them were an elderly gay couple. I know I am not supposed to have prejudices while serving customers, but I love tables of elderly, especially queer couples. Like I said, some boomers can be rough, but most old people are super amicable if you are even slightly cheerful. They will also laugh at anything. Everything is funny to them, and they eat slow so you have more time to care for others too. I try to signal with a feminine gesture that I am one amongst them, but even if not, they are always nice, and tip well. You do not even have to bother cracking jokes to them. They know you’re doing it for a job. One of them goes, “We live upstairs.” “Oh, we share the same plumbing. So we both fell victim to the water being down last week.” They laughed hysterically. I don’t know why.  

As I continue to run the food, Sufjan comes up. He is the other server: a Moroccan who was was downstairs breaking his fast for Ramadan. A New York City kitchen will always be more diverse than a college pamphlet. Yesterday, he broke his fast by 7, had a meal by 7:30, vaped up to the high clouds by 8, and by 9, he had gone to the bathroom and done a line. Do not let that defer you from the fact that he is a sweet, compassionate man. “Habibi, don’t worry. We got this, I’m here,” he said as he lightly hugged me on his way up the stairs. And we had got this. I started packing the order and he went over in the front to buss down a table. Faye, who has the ability to always catch me at the wrong moment, says, “Soul, can you please listen to me. Dine-in first.” She seemed annoyed, but at this point, the kitchen was behind us, they were overwhelmed too, and there was nothing we could have done. I stay invested in packing and withhold a response, and am thrown a, “We are going to have a talk later.”

I see two people standing up by the door. My prescription on my glasses are outdated so I can’t really tell who it is. They both step closer, and I can tell that one of them is Faye’s “friend.” He comes over every now and then, and helps her whenever someone calls in sick, especially with washing the dishes. However, as per what Sufjan told me yesterday, the friend and Faye were together because she cheated on her fiancé who financed this restaurant for her with him. Tea, but we will get back to that later.

The friend comes up to me and introduces himself as her friend with his name, which I forgot by the time he said it. He says that he is just here to say hi to Faye, and wanted to also talk to Sufjan for something. I lap the floor a few times, catering to a few needs, and when I catch wind of Sufjan, I tell him that the friend wanted to say hi to him. Sufjan waves at him and goes to him standing by the door and asks him to meet him later when it is not busy. The friend, however, insists that it is urgent and they go outside. 

Alone, I have to constantly loop the floor like the tongue of a broke man licking the bottom of the lays wrapper that he bought with his last cent, because it is always when it is busy that the some woman wants to know if our garlic chicken tastes very garlic-y, and if they could do it without the garlic. It can be thrilling if you have the mind for it, but restaurants, otherwise, can be like a watching a seal walk. Honestly, it would be faster if I spoon-fed these people. So this industry is filled with people who work here because they have to. Perhaps if it a high-end restaurant then the chef will have come from some school, and waiters will have climbed their way through lower-ranking restaurants to be there. But here, the kitchen is there because they had kids at a young age and now need send money to back in Mexico. Actually, even Sufjan is a divorced father of a one-year-old who is absent because the mother didn’t want him there. He still has to pay child support though, hence his presence here. The only person who dreamed of being here is Faye, whose restaurant it is. 

Before I could go and ask the other man who had showed up there with the friend what he was there for, a lady asked me if we had glasses that were not of glass to drink hot water from. The request irked me, but we had a set of cups, that had reportedly been bought a while ago but had been gone unused, so I complied. I find the set, and at the same time turn to learn the demands of the man who had been there standing for a while. “How can I help you?” I asked. 

He reached in to show me his ID as I opened the box of cups, and there it was A ROACH. It slowly started crawling out the box and landed right by foot, as I stepped on it.

I hear the words, “I’m here from the Department of Health.”  

There’s perhaps only two things modern restaurant owners fear, bad reviews, and the Health Department. A “B” in New York, especially in the Upper East Side was a “Thank you, and goodbye” sign. I knew this. So, I said fuck it *“*dine-in first,” I’ll deal with this man who just saw me step on a roach first. So I put the box of cups down to great him properly. I could not move as there was a roach under my shoe, so I asked him to feel at ease to inspect as he wished. As he stepped back, a dark horse rose in the opposite direction from the same set of cups: another roach. Not as big, but not small enough to go unnoticed as it raced through the street between the tall benches and tables and people. And it vanished into some table. For a moment, I maybe grasped some silence, not a shriek or a scream. Just absolute stillness in the vibration of the air within the room. And then it all exploded into a frenzy. Now was what just happened bad? Yes. But be real, this isn’t the first roach you have seen in NYC. I can assure you all stores here have some sort of rat or a roach problem. But people just randomly started getting up their seats and leaving. Faye was so tensely caught up with the officer from the Health Department that she almost teared up at the sight of this crumbling, but did not move an inch away from that man’s side. She can be a heartless person until it comes to others not having empathy for her. Against the stampede of people flooding out the door walked in Sufjan hungry for something. In a second, he was on his way out again, and I realized his face looked blood red. The next thing I know I see two men running across the street, one chasing the other with a knife in his hands. I’m pretty sure one of them was Sufjan. 

Faye was nowhere to be found, even after the man left, and once Sufjan came in he simply went to the bathroom before I could even whisper to him. I heard him say, “He fucking did it during Ramadan.” I continued cleaning the tables, and eventually it all wrapped up into the silence of just the loud speakers that bumped music only I listened to amongst the staff. They hate my music taste because I put on music “that puts people to sleep.” But putting on Joni Mitchell gives me topics to talk about to customers. After a while, Ben stepped out the bathroom with a busted lip. “Are you okay? Oh my god?” I exclaim. “That motherfucker, he punched me. And I came back and chased him with a knife,” he said. I was stunned. Soon after, Faye stepped outside with a bleak face, “He gave us a B.” I went in closer to hug her. For cares only about one thing: the restaurant. So this moment is the only time she will ever feel loss. She still did not let us close early because nothing came between a Chinese businesswoman and her money. “We will probably go to court over this.” Sufjan stepped out taped up, and we somehow got through the night. 

Somehow we got through the night. By the time we closed, I was basically dragging my body across the place. Faye went out and brought back her dog, a pug. I hate pugs, for the way they are bred solely to serve our standard of cuteness while being unable to function as a being— but I digress. I am too tired to blurt all of this out into words. She reaches into her pocket and bring out three joints. I asked the back of the house, if they wanted any, but they agreed to rather be done faster to get to their shift early tomorrow. “We’ll probably fight them in court,” she says. I had not noticed, and not ever cared before but today was 4/20. I reached in to take a picture, but I do not find my phone in my pockets. Still, the three of us cheered our joints. I was surrounded by this weird sense of belonging. Perhaps nothing will be the same tomorrow with our lives, our jobs, and our time spent together. I feel like the joint was just a pause in the chapter for the next things to unfold, but right now I understand what makes restaurants houses. Sufjan pauses to look at the dog, and gazes back at Faye. 

“Do they actually eat dogs in China?” he says letting out a laugh that is just him uttering the words “he he he” through his tongue. 

On an impulse, I pat his shoulders and say, “You cannot say that!” Faye laughs it off, perhaps she is already high. 

“Okay, if you were stuck in an island with him with nothing else what would you do with him?” he rephrases. 

“I would eat this motherfucker.” she says without hesitation. I pray these people never make a tweet in their lives. 

“It was fucked up what you did. You lied about being broken up with him,” he said. 

“He’s bugging out, I don’t know what’s going on,” she said. I knew she would never take responsibility, or, worse, apologize. She’s Asian after all. My mother has never once apologized to me in her life. So why would she. 

Momentarily, going back to this place being a house, a community. These overworked employees find refuge in the most fundamental thing they can provide to the people: food. We have all flees some horror in some far away land, and hope to make the best of our circumstances for ourselves, and the people we have left behind. We are not bound by passion, but necessity. Every other joy we find is a lucky stone we kick around along our climb. We are here because we need the money, and we are willing to suffer through things and have shitty life circumstances because we need the money. It is a sad, sad thing that we are at the end of the day being exploited for our work, and all we have is this bubble we create around our work, and the ones with whom we live in it.

“I’m leaving this place. Tomorrow,” said Sufjan calmly. I could see his resentment. At least she could have apologized to him. For his actions caused him physical pain. There was also Ramadan, but he also did coke. Religion is complicated.

He simply left. I wanted to confirm the whereabout of my phone, and asked Faye if she had seen it as I was leaving. She was busy on her phone looping the freakshow of the roach strutting down the runway. Then, she pulled me over and said, “Isn’t that your phone.” Someone, not a guest, who was there for whatever reason took advantage of the situation, and managed to find my phone somewhere on his way out from the bathroom, and took it with him. On my way home, I felt  helpless enough to break down into tears while walking. My phone is my actual child. It has a name. It also has all my pictures from back home up until New York, none of which is backed up. It is a last piece of my life I left behind. I overworked some penny-paying job back home, and summed up the money to buy it, and my parents added a bit as a gift. I am attached to that phone as if it were an organ. It was unfortunately also always dying, and could not be tracked down. 

Many forms of grief and loss I witnessed that day. But the worse of all was that I would have to put up with this day all over again tomorrow, and countless days to come.
